>> Estelle Weyl: So specificity,
>> Estelle Weyl: So
in terms of specificity,
we've covered a lot of selectors, and
they all have a specificity weight.
We didn't actually cover the global
selector, which is the star,
which means match anything and
anything and everything, all elements.
They will not match all pseudoelements and
stuff like that, but
it matches everything.
It has a specificity of 0-0-0.
So that sounds like it has no specificity,
but it actually has specificity,
it matches elements.
So it's not that it has no specificity,
it's just that the weight is 0.
An element has a specificity of 0-0-1.
If you have two elements, it's a bit
more specific and it would be 0-0-2.
If you have 12 elements
listed in your selector,
you've got a problem, but
the specificity is 0-0-12.
No matter how many element selectors you
have, one class selector will overwrite,
or will be more specific than no matter
how many element selectors you have.
So a single class is 0-1-0.
So whatever that value is in that middle
column overwrites the value that's
in the right column.
So you first compare the column on the
left, then the middle, and then the right.
So here I have a global
selector in front of my class.
The global one has a specificity of 0.
And the myClass has a specificity
of 0-1-0, so total, you have 0-1-0.
If you have an attribute
selector like type=checkbox,
that has the same weight as a class
selector, so it's 0-1-0 as well.
Only-of-type, a structural selector,
same specificity, 0-1-0.
If you put an element selector with
a class or an attribute selector or
structural selector, right, you have one
class weighted out
selector there of 0-1-0.
And then you have here,
you have one element, an li here and
an LIli there, so 0-1-1.
Here, you have two elements,
li nth-of-type 3n, tilde li.
So it matches any li that is an adjacent
sibling that comes after the third.
So it'd be the fourth list item,
fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth.
And it has a specificity of
0-1-2 because we have two lis,
we have an li here and an li there.
Does that make sense?
We start with an li and we end with an li.
Similarly, form input of type email.
So it's an input type that has a type
attribute with a value of email,
that is descendant of a form, right?
One element, two elements.
One element is the input,
one element is the form, so that's 0-0-2,
plus the attribute selector,
which is 0-1-0, so you have 0-1-2.
Going down on this page a little bit,
which is easier to do in the next
slide because this is a pdf.
So this link right here, you can print it
up and put it up on your desk at home.
Okay, going down, here I'll skip this one,
I'll go to this one.
The not, so here we have input
that has a type attribute.
So that's 0-1-1, and
then we have a not and a class.
The not has no weight whatsoever, it is
the parameter that's past the argument,
that is a class, right, so that's 0-1-0.
So you have 0-1-0, 0-1-0, and 0-0-1, for
a total of 0-2-1.
>> Estelle Weyl: Then here,
we have ten classes,
attributes and pseudo classes.
If you ever do this, find a new job.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Estelle Weyl: But this is what sess or
less will sometimes produce.
So be careful, right, you don't want
to increase your specificity like that,
because it makes it
really hard to overwrite.
And some people will use
an id to overwrite this.
They should just never produce
this in the first place.
So an id selector is a weight of 1-0-0,
and
here I use cute plankton,
they're the cutest, right?
Then the fish, and the shark isn't that
cute because the shark isn't that nice.
We don't wanna use sharks.
We can use sharks if we need to,
right, but
we wanna avoid them cuz
we don't like sharks.
So basically,
try to avoid div-itis and id-itis,
because the weight is really high and
it's hard to overwrite.
So here we have two plankton,
two fish and a shark,
because it's my id li.class a href.
So you have one class weight here
as an href attribute selector, and
one class here, so
that's where the middle 0-2-0 comes from.
You have one element as an a and
an li, so that's 0-0-2 right there,
and then you have one div which is
the id selector, so that's 1-2-2.
And then here you have div-itis for no
reason, you have two id selectors, right?
Or almost no reason, it's very rare
that you need them, and then the link.
So you've saying this link that's in my
div, that is nested within something that
it has div-itis,
so this right here is more specific,
has more weight than that.
Even though this is very specific, right?
This is very specific, it's saying,
I want a link that has an href attribute
that isn't an li that has a class of
class, that is in this specific div.
That's very specific, but
it has less weight than something saying
I have div-itis and
I'm gonna use a bunch of ids.
Then you have the style, which has
more weight than any number of sharks,
cuz that's an inline, right?
And that is the BP oil tanker.
And if we all remember the BP oil tanker
that destroyed half of the Gulf of Mexico,
we don't like that.
And even worse than that is important,
and that is a nuclear bomb.
And important is the nuclear bomb option.
So you want to avoid this like the plague.
I use it all the time to check
out why my CSS isn't working, but
I never put it into production.
I use it in my debugger
while I'm in the dev tools.
I open it up and I look and
I add important, and
then I'm like I was targeting a link and
this is a button.
So I was targeting the wrong element,
obviously that's where I went wrong.
And I find where my mistakes are with
important, but I don't put them in.
So there's some notes down here.
So I already explained that x-0-0 is
the div, the number of id selectors.
0-y-0 is the number of class selectors,
attribute selectors, and pseudo classes.
0-0-z is the number of type selectors and
pseudo elements.
So element selector,
it's actually called a type selector,
I was using the wrong terminology.
And pseudo elements like first letter,
first line, before, and after.
And then here, the reason I want to point
out the stuff at the bottom is because
this is the important stuff.
The star, the plus, the greater than,
the tilde, and then the space.
The space that is between that
combinator between e space f,
that's also a combinator.
Those have no value.
They increase specificity to
make things more specific, but
they don't add to the weight.
And then the not, and I think I said
this enough, but I'll say it for
hopefully the last time,
the not itself has no value.
It's the x, it's the argument
that increases the specificity.
So this basically
summarizes all of that and
explains how it works.
>> Estelle Weyl: This also,
we've already gone over all of this,
but it's in writing for
later on if you want to
use this as a resource.
Now, in terms of hacking,
I said avoid !important.
There's a few ways I avoid !important.
A lot of people do this,
when something has a class of .disabled,
make the cursor the default cursor,
and make that important, always.
Anything that has a class of .disabled,
the clicker will never look
like it can click on it.
p.btn (cursor: pointer;)
>> Estelle Weyl: So
you have a p that has a class of btn,
right, cuz you're an idiot and
you wanna make a button
out of a paragraph.
I'm sorry, I'm really judgmental.
So that will never overwrite
the previous statement, right?
There's no way that thing actually also
had the class disabled by accident
somehow, that you could
have the right cursor.
So one thing you can do is just
do .disabled.disabled.disabled.
It's really important to me, but
when you need to overwrite it, you can.
That's what that's saying, that's giving
you a specificity instead of 1-0-0-0-0,
it's giving you a specificity of 0-3-0,
which is pretty good.
You shouldn't be having more than
three classes on anything anyway.
You could put 5, you could put 12.
It basically says does
the class disabled exist?
Yes, okay, so does this other
class which says disabled exist?
Yes, or does this other class which
we have on this list disabled exist,
yes so it doesn't have to be
on the element three times.
It only has to be on it once,
cuz it basically checks the first one,
then the next one and the next one and
matches every single time.
So that's how that works.
Let me go onto one more thing and
then answer your question.
So that's for classes,
but what about divs?
You have a third party API, they put an id
on their thing and they made everything
blue, and it just does not match
the blue scheme of your website.
Uh-oh, right, they put !important on it.
Well, you should never put !important
if you're doing a third-party widget,
cuz you should just,
>> Estelle Weyl: Don't buy
their stock options.
Okay, what you can do is similarly
do #TheirWidget#TheirWidget,
because you need to overwrite
whatever they have.
And they've used an id, and
you can't go beyond their id selector.
How can you do it without !important,
right?
You could inline style, you could write
important, those are your two options.
If they just did this, right,
without the important, right,
how can you be more
specific than TheirWidget?
You just do it twice, right?
So it says does it have
the id of TheirWidget?
Yes, and then it says does it
have the ID of TheirWidget?
Yes, and so you have 2-0-0.
Whenever you use this one or this
bottom one, disabled.disabled.disabled,
in your markup, in your code,
always comment out why you're doing it cuz
anyone else would think
that's a big mistake.
And just say adding specificity
cuz we will not say what
we think of these people who are putting
in ids in their third party widgets.
So hack in case of
emergency would be a:not,
idDoesNotExist idDoesNotExist id,
cuz if you don't
know what their ids are,
cuz their ids change, right?
So this is just saying any a, but
it's giving the a a specificity
like this is a link element,
it's an a element.
And it's an a with a specificity of 3-0-1,
that's how you can give specificity.
Don't ever do this unless
it's something you can't
target, because it's someone else's
markup coming from some other server, and
you really need to overwrite it.
Okay, we're gonna come up on a break soon.
But before that,
I want to cover worst case scenario,
how do you overwrite important?
This is the worst hack in the world,
but it says, color: white !important.
Do these look white to you?
No, because I have an animation.
We'll learn about animations later on,
probably tomorrow.
It says keyframes color.
So the name of the animation is color.
And at the 100%, make it orange.
And then li says call this
animation called color.
And then stop at the 100% mark and
leave it there.
So if I actually change this to,
just to show you that
it worked.
>> Estelle Weyl: And
this is just in case everyone knows
selectors, they don't know this.
So it's okay, at least someone can
learn something during this session.